
## Jake Hemmerle - Individual Capstone Assessment #3

This senior design project is a quadratic funding module for the Substrate blockchain. This module will allow for a pool of funds on the blockchain to be democratically allocated using zero knowledge and quadratic voting in a way that prevents collusion and bribery. We will be implementing cryptogrpahic protocols. We will be learning the Substrate blockchain framework. We will be learning good software design practices and project collaboration. This project will allow other blockchains to take advantage of quadratic funding for their chains, as well as reuse our zero knowledge voting modules for other projects.


I have shaped my college curriculum around cryptography. I took Network Security (which should really be called Cryptography and Data Privacy or something) which focused heavily on cryptographic algorithms, and included us writing AES from scratch. I am now doing an independant study with Dr. Boyang Wang to learn more about applied cryptography in the field. Classes like Software Testing have taught me how to write better code. Programming Languages is helping me to think more conceptually about how Rust is used and what paradigms will best solve our problems.

My coop experience has been super helpful to support this. I did two coops and worked part time with a small software consulting company out of SF called Infuse.us as a Software Engineering Intern. I learned how to collaborate with other software engineers, learned best practices for full stack JS, how to write full stack applications, and I even got to lead a few projects. My latest coop was with the Web3 Foundation as a Technical Education Intern, where I got to learn more about cryptocurrency, cryptography, and I'm currently building documentation and tutorials and writing code in Rust for the Polkadot and Substrate ecosystems. I expect to apply all of these skills and when I graduate I hope to start as a Substrate Runtime Engineer or full time with the Web3 Foundation or Parity Technologies as a Rust Developer on Substrate.

My motivation for this project is to get real experience with Substrate, Rust, and actually implementing cryptographic algorithms and working with zkSNARKs. Getting these skills and making some serious progress towards implementing a quadratic funding module for Substrate will require the use of all of these skills, showing that I can produce useful things with these skills. To see quadratic funding used by parachains would be super exciting to see, especially as billions of dollars are being poured into the crypto ecosystem. Designing a solution requires the conceptualization of what we are trying to solve. It will require some reuse of other code, and require us to work with other experts to come up with a solution in order for it to be useful.

With this project, we plan to have, at the very minimum, a zero knowledge voting module for the Substrate blockchain by implementing MACI as specified by Vitalik Buterin here: https://ethresear.ch/t/minimal-anti-collusion-infrastructure/5413. This will leverage zkSNARKs and Substrate runtime development. Upon successful completiion of that, we will build Sybil resistance via Kusama/Polkadot's on-chain identity system. This will then be used with the Constrained Liberal Radicalism algorithm (quadratic funding algorithm) and UI to finish out the quadratic funding pallet. We will know we are done by whether or not the Web3 Foundation decides that this project is complete, and they will point us in the right direction where guidence is needed.
