## Brandon Spears - Individual Capstone Assessment

### What is the project
The senior design that our group picked is a quadratic funding module for the Substrate blockchain. The project is expected to be coded in Rust, and will probably incorporate a GUI via a front end / application to use the module. This project is expected to be challenging, and is pulled from a grant from the Web3 Foundation. While I personally am unfamiliar with a lot of what this project will encompass, I am confident that my ability to adapt and learn will be very beneficial. The group has already posted several good videos and guides that I am in the process of going through. I believe that this project will allow me to get a better understanding of how to work in a small team, as well as get experience with Rust and blockchain. 

### Academic perspective
While I have been a college student, I have taken several courses that have taught me the basics of computer programming, such as Data Structures (CS2028) and Python Programming (CS2021). These classes will allow me to learn Rust at a significant faster rate. I have also taken classes that have gone over the specifics of blockchain, Programming Languages (CS 3003) and Data Encoding (CS 5125), and the way that it works. I have even taken classes that have gone over how to structure a project and collaborate effectively, Software Engineering (EECE 3093). Following this material up with some supplemental videos and having good communication with the team should allow me to contribute to this project. Even classes from freshman year like Engineering Models (ENED 1090) that have changed how I tackle problems are vital to performing better.

### Co-op perspective
My co-op experiences will not necessarily be that useful for this project. My first co-op was for the University of Cincinnati as a web developer. I mainly used ruby on rails and linux w/ GitHub for development on their web application, Scholar@UC. My second co-op was at Northrop Grumman, where I was a backend Java developer and an Angular front-end developer. My experiences from these co-ops will allow me to pickup Rust quicker and to be able to develop a front-end for this project if needed. I also have some experience using Docker and API's from both co-ops, and these might be of use.

### Motivation
I think that this project will be a good opportunity to change from being a web heavy developer to more of a backend developer. I have heard a lot about how unique and powerful Rust is, and this project will be an excellent opportunity to do so. As for the blockchain portion, I know of a lot of technologies that are using this (bitcoin), and it would give me a better understanding of it. Overall, I am friends with Trent Meyer, and wanted to work in a group for this project. Jake Hemmerle also very passionate / knowledgeable about this project, which should be a big advantage since he is the team leader. This project also has the potential to earn money if we complete it, since W3F has a grant that is collectible upon completion.

### Goals & Expectations
As for any project, its success depends on clearly defined goals and expectations. My goals for this project are quite simple, focus on learning Rust and developing as a team. If we don't complete the project to the specifications of the grant from W3F, then we will have simply done exactly those goals. If we finish the project to their standards, then we will also have some money and a better platform to demonstrate our application to future employers and our peers. I also believe that focusing on our strengths will allow us to complete more, so we will keep that in  mind when we divy up our tasks in whatever system we chose to manage it for us. As for whether or not I have done a good job, that will be based on the effort that I put in, and I have no doubt that we will feel accomplished when we finish this project.
